Luke Skivington's Notes and Information about Fuse Testing

Notes and Information about Fuse Testing:

The wall socket is 250V 50Amps, which is required for the power supply that we have. The power supply creates a large current which is required to fuse test properly. The only 250V outlet we could find in the garage is the one next to the welder (where I would usually be posted up when testing.) If you have a new space next year look for an outlet that matches the plug on the power supply. (Can’t be too hard its pretty big)
The schematic and pictures in the folder show how the setup is currently wired. The breadboards may seem to make this confusing but they are simple. The breadboards are only used to create voltage dividers to allow for the data to be read by the program properly. The breadboard connected to the current sensor contains two different voltage dividers that turn the voltage from 5V to 3.3V. This is because the Teensy 4.1 can only take up to 3.3V inputs without breaking the pins of the board. The other breadboard contains a 10kOhm resistor and the temperature sensor in series. The temperature sensor is 10kOhms at room temperature, the resistor in series is to make the reading more stable, but you can play around with it if you don’t think it's necessary. 
The current sensor (LEM-HO 100S-0100) works by taking the current going through the inside hole, through the hall effect, and turning it into a voltage that is then output. To get readings that are stable we take the reading and subtract it from the reference voltage. Then in the code I calculate it by subtracting by 10, (it's a consistent difference so I just level it out) and then divide the difference by 6. This number was obtained by testing with known amperages, and it works well. 
The code is written in platform.io. You may notice that the logging of the data is just done in serial.print(). To get a file with an output for this, go into the platformio.ini and write this line “monitor_filters = log2file” This will create a .log file any time you run the program to the teensy. Because of how the serial outputs are set up with the commas, if you take the .log file and change .log to .csv it will become a .csv file you can then load in excel and make graphs with. I have deleted all the ones I had when I uploaded the files here. Also the file I uploaded should have the monitor_filters line already written but I had to mention it just in case. There is a lot of bloat in the code, from testing, etc, but you can figure out what is not being used because the code is not very long. 
The power supply has power resistors attached in parallel in series with the power supply line. This is because we need to create a current for the testing. The large amount of resistors does not directly correlate with the current it theoretically should. This is likely partially due to the parallel connections creating some resistance and the resistance of the wire and of the fuse itself, etc. The largest amount of current I have been able to produce with this configuration is around 93 Amps. If your goal for next year is to rate the fuses higher it may be worth looking into getting another power supply either to connect in parallel with the existing one or just one that can output more current. If you were to connect them in parallel I don’t know how you would connect the other power supply to the wall unless you have a second 250V outlet somewhere, maybe there is a second one next to the first one I actually don’t remember. 
There is a switch attached through the power line. It is basically there as safety and it also allows you to time when to run the program as you can run the program, let it upload and then flick the switch to allow current through.
There are two main types of tests that I did, blow time testing and temperature testing. For blow time testing you are seeing how fast the fuse breaks at a set current. It is important to note that the current will go down before the fuse breaks, this is because the heat creates extra resistance. Typically when presenting the current level for the blow time test you can either present the highest current value or the average. I think the average is better but just keep it consistent. Don’t attach the temperature sensor for the blow time tests, they get too hot and will damage it and typically the fuse will break too fast for the sensor to give a correct reading anyway. Measuring the blow time is easy, you take the time that the current goes from 0 to value and then the time that it goes back to 0 (aka when the fuse breaks and the circuit is broken). Be careful to switch off the switch on blow time tests after it breaks, it could be very dangerous if not careful. Also if the fuse doesn’t break cleanly it can cause sparks after it breaks. For the temperature tests, you keep the current level at whatever you would like to rate the fuse and test it for 10 minutes. You are looking for the change in temperature, so the temperature sensor has to be attached, attach it where the battery would be, and the current sensor to make sure that the current is correct throughout the test. The current rule that we were testing for is that the temperature cannot change by more than 50 C (the temperature the code outputs is in celsius btw) throughout the 10 minutes. You should probably run it for a little over 10 minutes though just for reliability. 
There are two blocks that are used to hold the fuse in place when it is being tested. Be sure to tighten the screws because this affects the amount of current that goes through the system. There is electrical tape on the bottom of the blocks to make sure they are isolated. Something interesting to look into is how the blocks act as heat sinks during the temperature tests. There is something there as they do get really hot, but the temperature tests have so many factors that make them unpredictable. 
You have to make some sort of data sheet to show to the judges at competition, to show the rating and the results of the tests. If the rules change at all you need to show anything that they add/change about current rules. I have attached my attempt at it for last year in the drive if you need some inspiration. It was made in overleaf, which is a software that lets you use LaTeX easily. 
If you have any questions or anything I didn’t cover here you can email me at lps5431@nyu.edu (you keep your nyu email after you graduate) or in slack if I’m still in it. Thanks for reading! 
